In the workplace, many people use computers to keep records, analyze data, do research, and manage
projects. At home, you can use computers to find information, store pictures and music, track finances,
play games, and communicate with others – and those are just a few of the possibilities.
You can also use your computer to connect to the internet, a network that links computers around the
world. Internet access is available for a monthly fee in most urban areas, and increasingly, in less
populated areas. With internet access, you can communicate with people all over the world and find
a vast amount of information. Here are some of the most popular things to do with computers.

The World Wide Web (usually called the Web, or web) is a gigantic storehouse of information. The web
is the most popular part of the internet, partly because it displays most information in a visually
appealing format.
Headlines, text, and pictures can be combined on a single webpage – much like a page in a magazine
– along with sounds and animation. A website is a collection of interconnected webpages. The web
contains millions of websites and billions of webpages.
Surfing the web means exploring it. You can find information on the web about almost any topic
imaginable. For example, you can read news stories and movie reviews, check airline schedules, see
street maps, get the weather forecast for your city, or research a health condition. Most companies,
government agencies, museums, and libraries have websites with information about their products,
services, or collections. Reference sources, such as dictionaries and encyclopedias, are also widely
available.
The web is also a shopper’s delight. You can browse and purchase products –books, music, toys,
clothing, electronics, and much more – at the websites of major retailers. You can also buy and sell
used items through websites that use auction-style bidding.

Email (short for electronic mail) is a convenient way to communicate with others. When you send an
email message, it arrives almost instantly in the recipient’s email inbox. You can send email to many
people simultaneously, and you can save, print, and forward email to others. You can send almost any
type of file in an email message, including documents, pictures, and music files. And with email, you
don’t need a stamp!

Instant messaging is like having a real-time conversation with another person or a group of people.
When you type and send an instant message, the message is immediately visible to all participants.
Unlike email, all participants have to be on-line (connected to the internet) and in front of their
computers at the same time. Communicating by means of instant messaging is called chatting.

If you have a digital camera, you can move your pictures from the camera to your computer. Then you
can print them, create slide shows, or share them with others by email or by posting them on a website.
You can also listen to music on your computer, either by importing (transferring to your computer)
music from audio CDs or by purchasing songs from a music website. Or, tune in to one of the thousands
of radio stations that broadcast over the Internet. If your computer comes with a DVD player, you can
watch movies.

Do you like to play games? Thousands of computer games in every conceivable category are available
to entertain you. Get behind the wheel of a race car, battle frightening creatures in a dungeon, or
control civilizations and empires! Many games allow you to compete with other players around the
world through the Internet. Windows includes a variety of card games, puzzle games, and strategy
games.

